---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: An Introduction
date: 2017-08-31
labels:
  - Learning
---
<p>
A few years ago, I was working overseas in Germany.  While there, I began to realize that my knowledge of computers and the technical world was getting a little rusty.  That is why when I found out that due to family reasons, I needed to return home to Hawaii, that I decided to take the oppertunity to bursh up on some of my computing skills.  To that end, I enrolled in a couple of Informational and Computer Science classes at Leeward Community College.  While at first I was only planning to take a few courses to update my knowledge and skills, but soon found myself enrolling in all the ICS courses that Leeward Community College had to offer.  After that, it was an easy step to getting my Associates degree and next thing I know, I am now enrolled as an ICS student at the University of Hawaii.
</p>
<p>
In taking all the courses in Informational and Computing Science that Leeward had to offer, I ended up recieving specilizations in Information Security, Network Support, and Software Development.  I also was able to take courses in Database Support and Mobile Development.  I have really appreciated the diverse education background Leeward Community College had to offer me.  During the course of these studies, I have found my real passion in ICS lies within the area of software development.  I find it a challenge to be presented a problem and then needing to come up with a programming solution to that problem.  One of the areas of software development that I am interested learning more about is in efficiency.  While there are many ways to solve a problem, which one of those methods is most ideal?
</p>
